 60 minutes rewind. It's hard to believe it's been 30 years since Adam Sandler first appeared on Saturday Night Live. But did you know that Sandler was let go just a few years after he joined the cast? We wanted to know why and how he evolved from a TV comic to the rarest of things, a humble movie star who's brought in billions of dollars at the box office. This month, the 53-year-old, who sometimes described as juvenile, may surprise audiences who think they know the Sandman's stick. He takes on a gritty, dramatic role in a movie called Uncut Gems, and his performance is drawing some of the best reviews of his career. We wondered if all the buzz had turned Sandler into a serious, self-important actor. We got our answer, when fresh off an overnight flight, he wanted to meet us at a basketball court. It looks like a much of high school kids are junior high. Usually I can keep up with that. Actually no, not usually. How are you doing? I fly in, try to find a game somewhere, play, get a little sweat. His game says a lot about the real Adam Sandler. Generous with an assist, quick to compliment. Nice job, buddy. But with sharp elbows in a tongue to match. You've been in New York like 36 hours. How many times have you played basketball? That's very good. So once with you, then I played right before this. I'd say five sessions. Is that what you do pretty much every time? It's kind of when I have nothing to do. I either I battle eating. I say I can go eat, I'll go play hoop. Right. Right. Up and down is of the chubby life. Adam Sandler is an unconventional movie star. He favors oversized clothes, untied sneakers, and a fresh from the hamper look. A proud father of two with his wife of 16 years, Jackie. He's a regular guy, living a charmed life, which is all part of his appeal. His career is heavy with far-fetched comedies like Happy Gilmore and Goof Ball gets the girl comedies like the wedding singer. These films usually feature his friends, and he usually plays a fish out of water character who prevails in the end. It's a formula that sometimes fizzles. That's how we roll in our house, baby. You know, when people talk about your career, they talk about these ups and then the downs, ups and then the downs. Man, I don't know what the downs have been. I mean, maybe in some people, when they write about me, they talk about my downs, but I don't have any downs. I loved every movie I've made. Never in my entire career phoned one thing in. The critics who said, and we're going to read you in my favorite ones, you know, this movie is the last nail in Adam's sandwich coffin. Another said, he's no longer a movie star. Another one called you a man child. I hear that, yeah, that makes some sense. You're not bulletproof. I mean, it's got a hurt. That stuff doesn't hurt me anymore. I think it hurt me 20 years ago. It got me 20 years ago. It was kind of shell shock. Like, what happened? I say, I suck. I thought I was good at this. I don't care. It needs to be changed. He's new as Phil may surprise his critics. Uncut James is far from a predictable Sandler Fars. It's an intense, dark drama set in the cutthroat world behind New York's 47th Street Diamond District. I'm not a fucking buying watcher. This is how it right now. He plays Howard Ratner, a jewelry dealer and sports gambler in desperate streets. $1,000 is a point. It's a plum part with serious acting chops required for every scene. I don't know. They get that. I don't know. Everybody. Everybody always takes about you being such a likable guy and then you play this loud sweaty obnoxious character. Right. Did you have any reservation about that? I was scared, yeah. And I was like, I don't know, man. I don't like him very much. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. This is kind of the street where we we shot a lot of stuff got prepared. Got to it's basically the big part of the movie this part. It is character rich here. Yes. I love you. Sandler researched the role for months, creating a cadence and wardrobe befitting the part. Rimless glasses, gold chains and oversized teeth. What's up? Opposite retired NBA superstar Kevin Garnett who plays himself. Let me clean this. Let me clean them real quick. I'm in the Alta Sada for free. In the movie I tell Kevin Garnett's character, let me wash your earrings. Right. And he polished those for you and that's one of the guys told me that's the first move is get jewelry off, off somebody. Because they can't leave. And you're doing something for them and then you could discuss the flaws of what they have and say I got something a little better for you and that kind of thing. It's clever. Yeah, very clever. The New York Diamond District is a world away from his hometown of Manchester, New Hampshire where Sandler roamed the Little League fields. The only thing bigger than his hair was his confidence. I was always very goofy looking. I didn't realize it at the time. I thought I was kind of a stud but looking back at it is pretty ridiculous. Where are the confidence come from? My parents told me I was my mother set out great. I was all the time I started to believe her. But my father would be like, you're great, but you need that great. Oh my gosh. This is it. This is the room I grew up in. It's like a museum. He grew up in this house, the youngest of four children, the rare comedian who says his childhood was happy. But that was my bed. That was my brother's bed. Oh my gosh, look at this. Yeah, same carpet. Same carpet as growing up for sure. Same sheets, same everything. His late father Stan was a big man with a big personality, an electrical contractor who coached his kids' Little League teams and whose Sandler calls his hero. Come on, come on. Mom Judy was a nursery school teacher. She is his biggest fan and sometimes harshest critic. What do you think of Uncut Jams? Oh, I loved it. It was very different. Very different. Very different. Yeah, especially his wolf's teeth. I told you. You go straight to the teeth. You didn't like that look? Not exactly. No. I spent all those money to make his teeth nice and woo. When did you remember all the cussing in the movie? Anytime a curfee hates it, I concur some. Amazing. You can really rope them together? I agree. Yes, thank you. Yes, I can rope them nice. My mother didn't teach me to curse and I didn't teach him. Where did you learn it? I don't know where I got it. It's been fun. I must stay out of the shots now. You had your moment. His family remains an important influence on his life and his comedy. I used to do my grandmother and impression of my grandmother everybody used to like around the house. Well, you know Adam. She always used to say, well, you know, you cannot digest, can't do no. That's not good for your stomach. That's why you always get belly aches. She didn't know I was faking belly aches to stay at a school if she thought it was the camelope. His first job was at the Puritan. What's up, everybody? A local landmark in Manchester, New Hampshire, famous for its ice cream. Not it seems Adam Sandler. A cherry sign fell. And not a Sandler. It's disgusting. When it was time for college, he went to New York University, which allowed him to work the city's stand-up clubs at night. He worked hard at it, hitting this stage at Comic Strip Live more than 500 times. When you go to the bathroom, public bathroom, you never find you. He was going there with the same deal. He went piece of toilet paper and put it there. Another piece over there. And he pulled on his pants and then got the way not so that piece. What were you making? I'm going to come in here to fix that. I think it was $10 a night. $10. That was good. Didn't care. Stand-up is how Adam Sandler discovered what would become a trademark of his act, using the guitar to sell his jokes. You know what I'm saying? Playing the guitar was Sandler's solution for intense stage fright. I was so nervous every time. Then I'd get up the night and remember what I was supposed to say and go blank. And you have the guitar in your hands, can that way? I was at least doing something. It was the security blanket. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Still living in the dorm, he got his first big break. A guest spot on America's most popular sitcom, The Cosby Show. It didn't last long. I did four episodes and I remember wanting to be on five. You know, I was always at that place in my life. I think you're so low-key that you don't really realize that you were so ambitious. I was very driven, man. I don't know what the hell was going through my head. What did you want? Was it, I got to get to SNL, I got to be, movie star, I got to be- I wanted the Eddie Murphy. I wanted that. Being like Eddie Murphy meant becoming a movie star. But first, getting to Saturday Night Live. He made it there when he was just 23 years old. The story will continue after this. Holy moly, look at best. This is it. This is the best, the best. My brother said to me when I was applying for colleges, I said, what should I study? He goes, why should you be an actor? You should be a comedian. He said, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'll do that. That was kind of that stupid. His time at SNL was spent alongside, among others, Chris Rock, David Spade, and the late Chris Farley. That was Farley's death. He had a desk right there. He was always crazy and funny. Spade was over here. Chris Rock was here. And you guys keep it a lot nicer than us, we will fill. Their generation loved them. Critics did not. Just a few years in, even powerful SNL executive producer Lauren Michaels couldn't save Sandler. It was the rare moment in the history of the show where the network and the critics were on the same side. Everybody agreed that this group of people weren't funny. Was he fired or did he quit? I certainly think I could protect him, but I think it could be a rough year. That's right, that's right. It was almost like a recommendation maybe it's a good time to resign, right? I'm like, my heart was broken and I was scared. And then you don't like telling anybody, hey, you know that, that thing I was doing, and they said I was no good at it. Sandler returned to SNL last spring for the first time. Nearly 25 years after he was asked to leave, he got the last laugh. But it was his heartfelt tribute that night to pal Chris Farley, who died in 1997 of a drug overdose that stole the show. I was saying in rehearsal when we first doing it in the daytime and I kept getting choked up. I think it was just being at SNL and being in the place that I hung with the man. But yeah, Farley was the guy that we all just said, well, he's the funniest now who's next, you know. Thank you so much. Sandler is holding his own. Netflix says his latest stand-up special was a hit and that more than 70 million people watched Murder Mystery. This film last summer with Jennifer Aniston. What the? Are you kidding me? On screen, on stage or on the court. I'll cover this kid. Adam Sandler is more than just fun to watch. That's called the purpose. He's the most versatile smart ass in the game. Right on, baby.