 60 minutes rewind. Barbara Streisand is a stunning performer. She's also very private and very uncomfortable with publicity. So why would she open up her life to 60 minutes? Over the past few months, she's asked us that question dozens of times. In fact, she had just released a retrospective of her 30-year singing career, and she wanted to publicize her much-anticipated movie Prince of Tides. And one price that she had to pay was this invasion of her privacy. I knew her when she lived on this street, Third Avenue, in Manhattan back in the early 60s. She had left her family in Brooklyn at 16 and had come to the Apple with dreams of greatness. And you lived where? I lived up there. Did you believe 30 years ago when you slept there that you were going to be Barbara Streisand? I knew that ever since I was seven years old. You lived? It just had to be. Yeah, there was no other way for me to be. I would like to go upstairs. Oh, I would love it. We'll see where you used to live. Yeah, you know, did you ever see the movie on the pussycat? Yeah. It was done in the tenement building that looked just like that. I like this one. Yeah. Third floor. 60 bucks a month. How many rooms do you remember? Four. Four. I'll go to the old tenements. What did your mother think of your living here? I thought she didn't like it. She thought I was being Brooklyn. I can't believe this. The door open and memories flooded in. And this was my living room. Oh, my God. These are your end-indies. Really? For all these years, I am so shocked that there is an apartment still here. Look at this. This is what I remember. This face, the brick wall. This window faces nothing. This is the view. This is the view, Mike. This is the view. I was 30 years ago as a relative unknown Barbara had her own hootspa. I was doing my own TV show around the corner from this apartment and she was a regular guest. You know something? I really didn't like you back 30 years ago. Oh, come on. And I don't think you liked me either. I thought you were mean. I thought you were very mean. I didn't think that you paid much attention to me because you were totally self-imsoored back 30 years ago. Wait, wait, wait. I resent this. You invite me as a guest on your show and you like we would talk about all kinds of subjects that interested me, right? So you were using me as a guest on your show to talk. Now, how do you dare call me self-involved? Self-involved is one thing. Self-absorbed is, you know, something 20 to 30 years of psychoanalysis. I say to myself, what is it that she's trying to find out that takes 20 to 30 years? I'm a slow learner. How many years have you been in the butt? In the butt. In the butt. Why do you sound so accusatory? Are you against psychotherapy? Nick Nolte stars in Prince of Tides. The movie she's been working on the past three years. She plays as a psychiatrist. He the brother of her patient. The movie is about how childhood traumas make for unhappy adults. Something Barbara knows a lot about. Her own pain started when her father died. She was just 15 months old. He remains almost desperately important to you, doesn't he? Yeah, I would have liked to have a father. Well, you had a stepfather, but your father. I had a stepfather when I was seven years old. But she says he almost never talked to her. And when he did, it was awful. She still remembers he once told her she couldn't have ice cream because she was too ugly. What made him such a creep? I mean, he didn't talk to you. Why do you do that? You don't believe me? I have to convince you of this or what? Go ahead. The man never talked to me. Why? You know, at the time that I was a child, I just thought that I was awful. I must be so awful. I remember he... This is awful to say. Will you just jealous of him that he took your mother away? I don't want to cry. I was at summer camp. Oh. It's dial. Okay. For a moment, she couldn't continue. But then she found the words. I look at his life, you know. He left his own children. He left three children. And then he was saddled with my mother's too. So he was a man who couldn't give affection. But he must have been nuts about your mother if he did that. He was mean to my mother. I saw him mean to her. This was not a nice man. And her relationship with her mother only made things worse? My mother never said to me, you're smart, you're pretty, you're anything. You could do what you want. She never told me anything like that. My mother would say to my mother now, why don't you ever give me any compliments? She said, I didn't want you to get a swelled head. Barbara says her mother told her she was odd, skinny, and not pretty enough to be a movie star, that she should be a typist. Are you very proud of Barbara? Who would not be? Who would not be proud of this girl? Are you close? She hasn't got time to be close to anyone. You know what your mother told me about her relationship with you. What? She says you haven't got time to be close to anyone. Quote. And... She said to anyone or did she say to her? To anyone. Let your own more. And even now, mom's judgment stings. You like this, that 40 million people have to see me like do this. Barbara, what do we get to do? And then I wrote. And then my next song was? No, that's what my picture's about. That's what Prince of Tire says all along. Here's the truth, okay? That I wanted to make a very strong point in the movie about grieving and about crying. If you notice, I do it through... Obviously it's the story of a man's catharsis. A man's getting to the point where he can feel again. In order to feel, even joy, you have to be able to feel the pain. I just don't want to have to do it in front of 40 million people. It's a kind of private issue, you know? Barbara today is obsessed with privacy and with work. She leaves her home in Beverly Hills for the studio in her mobile van, so as not to waste a minute of production time, she says. This is Barbara's world, the cocoon where she's in total control. Three years into this movie project... You want to call me out? Yeah. She still pushes through a 15-hour work day. Hi, y'all. Years ago, the famed director of Funny Girl, William Wiler, gave Barbara a megaphone and told her she should be a director. Result? Eight years ago, she directed Yantal. Now, there's Prince of Tides. The movie is a vision in her head, but it changes daily, and sometimes with Barbara even hourly, down to the minutia of how to say a single word. No, no, I hate it. I hate the word beautiful. Why can't I be short in it? It's beautiful. It's the youth, isn't it? It's the beautiful. I think it's the full one. She's a complicated fusion of self-continued and self-hout. She is fiercely competitive, a woman who wants to be the best. There's not that feeling about what is it? What's missing? Hold on. Down the years, she has often been the target of nasty criticism from her peers. If I were a man director, would they even ask the question? No. No. You assume men directors are controlled. They work. It's not a negative. I don't like to be given crap. Bullshit. It's like if I'm in a work process and I'm dealing with an ad, and somebody tells me they've darkened a certain letter or made a certain color, and then they don't. I don't like that. So they see a certain side of me that people might call difficult. She says she doesn't want cameras to film her at work because it's too distracting. Seven, you said. Seven, you said. It's so close to me. Three, four. Take two. You have to put it on the screen. Watch director's try-send take-over. Can I just see the difference if you put that one light bulb on right there? Come in closer on the back camera to sort of simulate the distance of this one? I think you're better in this camera because this is a little too far over. Do I have to watch you show? Leave the shoes off all. Can start the interview, please. They say, I'm difficult. Where were you? You would love to control this piece. Absolutely. You're kidding? Of course. I don't trust you. The story will continue after this. When are you going to be 50? I knew you were going to... I didn't know what you were going to do when it has the question. I can't believe it because I don't feel it. And she doesn't look it. She turns 50 next spring. But she looks about as young as she did in 1963 when she was a guest on the Judy Garland show. And when these two legends sang together that night, it was magical. Listen to what Barbara has written about that night. I remember her hand was shaking in mind and I thought then, why is she so frightened? Now, so many years later, I understand. What do you understand? It's like going out after being in the business 30 years. You know, it's like everybody's ready to say she's going downhill or her career is over. Or they want it to be over. Not the public mind you. So you're frightened? I think, well, what if I go out there and go, well, she's not as good as she used to be? She won't sing in concert anymore. She even chose not to include her own vocal imprints of tides. You won't sing in concert. You didn't sing. This disappointed me in Prince of tides. Why were you waiting for me to sing? Because that's who you are first. To me, I know you are the first. That's how I began. I didn't want to bring the attention to Barbara Streisand, the singer. It's exactly the reason I didn't sing. Where she wants attention now is on Barbara Streisand, the director. Are you the forefathers? Two feet and four frames. It's one thirty in the morning. There's one last edit before she says goodnight. Good night. Good night, sweetie. See you tomorrow. Okay. The kid from Brooklyn, the youngster from Third Avenue, has realized almost all her wildest dreams. Hey, I like this. This is very good. Can you go wherever I go? You know, like in the olden days, the Marlene and Dietrich and all those, you know, real movie stars. They would have a light that would follow them around the house there, and the good old days. Good night. Good night. You know something? I've gotten to like that girl.