 60 minutes rewind. It's been quite a week for Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton. On Monday his picture was on the cover of Time Magazine, anointed by the press as the frontrunner for the Democratic presidential nomination. Six days later he's trying to salvage his campaign. His problem, long-roomed allegations of marital infidelity finally surfaced in a supermarket tabloid. In last week they were picked up and reprinted unsubstantiated by the mainstream press. Since then for better or for worse Governor Clinton's private life has become the overriding issue in the Democratic presidential campaign. Earlier today Governor Clinton and his wife Hillary sat down with me to try to put the issue to rest. Keep in mind as we said earlier, all of the allegations are unsubstantiated, all have been denied by everyone involved. Except for the case of Jennifer Flowers, a former television reporter and cabaret singer, Jennifer Flowers in a tabloid interview for which she was paid. Says she carried on a long-term affair with Governor Clinton from the late 1970s through the end of 1989. Who is Jennifer Flowers? You know her. Oh, you have, you know. How would you describe your relationship? A very limited, but until this, you know, friendly, but limited. I had, I met her in the late 70s when I was Attorney General. She was one of a number of young people who were working for the television stations around Little Rock. People in politics and the people in the media knew each other then just as they do now. She left our state and for years I didn't really hear from her and know what she was doing. Then she came back, I don't know, sometime a few years ago and went to work again in the state. So that's who she is. Was she a friend and acquaintance? Did you watch Noir? Yes, she was an acquaintance. I would say a friendly acquaintance. When this story, this rumor story got started in the middle of 1980 and she was contacted and told about it. She was so upset and she called back. She said, how can I be listed on this? I haven't seen you for more than 10 minutes and 10 years. She would call from time to time when she was upset or thought she was really being hurt by the rumors. I would call her back. Either she would call the office or I would call her back there at the office or I would call her back at the house. Hillary knew when I was calling her back. I think once we were together and so there's nothing out of the ordinary there. She's a legend and is described in some detail in a supermarket tabloid which she calls a 12-year affair with you. What allegation is false? When this woman first got caught up in these charges, I felt as I felt about all of these women that they've just been mine in their own business and they got hit by a meteor. It was no fault of their own. We reached out to them. I met with two of them to reassure them. They were friends of ours. I felt terrible about what was happening to them. Bill talked to this woman every time she called distraught saying her life was going to be ruined. He'd get off the phone and tell me that she said sort of wacky things which we thought were attributable to the fact that she was terrified. It was only when money came out. When the tabloid went down there offering people money to say that they had been involved with me, that she changed her story. There's a recession on times that's tough and I think you can expect more and more of these stories as long as they're down there handing out money. I'm assuming from your answer that you're categorically denying that you ever had an affair with Jennifer Flowers. I've said that before and so is she. You said that your marriage has had problems, that you've had difficulties. What do you mean by that? What does that mean? Is that some kind of help us break the code? Does that mean you were separated? Is that mean that you had communication problems? Is that mean you contemplated divorce? Does it mean adultery? I think the American people, at least people that have been married for a long time, know what it means and know the whole range of things that it can mean. You've been saying all week that you've got to put this issue behind you. Are you prepared tonight to say that you've never had an extra marital affair? I'm not prepared tonight to say that any married couple should ever discuss that with anyone but themselves. I'm not prepared to say that about anybody. I think that's what you've been saying essentially for the last couple of months. Look Steve, you go back and listen to what I've said. You know I have a knowledge wrongdoing, I have a knowledge causing pain in my marriage. I have said things to you tonight and to the American people from the beginning that no American politician ever has. I think most Americans are watching this tonight. They'll know what we're saying, they'll get it and they'll feel that we have been more candidate. I think what the press has to decide is, are we going to engage in a game of gotcha? I can remember a time and it was sad when a divorced person couldn't run for president. That time, thank goodness, has passed. Nobody's president is against anybody because they're divorced. Are we going to take the reverse position now that if people have problems in their marriage and their things in their past which they don't want to discuss which are painful to them? That they can't run. You're trying to put this issue behind you. The problem with the answer is it's not a denial and people are sitting out there, they're saying, look, it's really pretty simple. If he has never had an extra marital affair, why doesn't he just say so? That may be what they're saying. You know what I think they're saying? I think they're saying, here's a guy who's leveling with us. You may think that we should say more and you can keep asking the question but I'm telling you, I think that we've told, I'll come back to what I said, I have told the American people more than any other candidate for president, the result of that is that everybody go into my state and spend more time trying to play gotcha. There isn't a person watching this who would feel comfortable sitting on this couch detailing everything that everyone on in their life or their marriage. I think it's real dangerous in this country if we don't have some zone of privacy for everybody. I think that is absolutely pretty good. I couldn't agree with you more and I agree with you that everyone wants to put this behind you. The reason it hasn't gone away is that your answer is not a denial, is it? Interesting. Let's say it's not a denial. Of course it's not and let's take it from your point of view. That won't make it go away. You can cut this round or cut this flat. If you deny, then you have a whole other hoarder people going down there offering more money trying to prove that you lied. If you say yes, you have just what I've already said by being open and telling you that we've had problems. You have old good, now we can pro-play gotcha and find out who it is. No matter what I say to pretend that the press will then let this die, we're kidding ourselves. This has become a virtual cottage industry. The only way to put it behind us, I think, is for all of us to agree that this guy has told us about all we need to know. Anybody who's listening gets the drift of it. Let's go on and get back to the real problems of this country. The problems are about what's going to happen to families in New Hampshire and the rest of this country in the future. Now what happened to mine in the past? I don't like some of these questions any better than you do, but the question of marital infidelity is an issue with the sizeable portion of the electorate, according to the latest CBS News Bowl, which was just taken over the weekend. 14% of the registered voters in America say they wouldn't vote for a candidate who's had an affair. I know it's an issue, but what does that mean? That means 86% of the American people either don't think it's relevant to presidential performance. Our look at whether a person looking at all the facts is the best person to serve. We've gone further than anybody we know of, and that's all we're going to say. And people can ask us 100 different ways from 100 different directions. And we're just going to leave the ultimate decision up to the American people. I think most Americans would agree that it's very admirable that you have stayed together, that you've worked your problems out, that you seem to have reached some sort of an understanding in an arrangement. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Wait a minute. You're looking at two people who love each other. This is not an arrangement or an understanding. This is a marriage. That's a very different thing. You know, I'm not sitting here as some little woman standing by my man like Tammy Y. Net. I'm sitting here because I love him, and I respect him, and I honor what he's been through and what we've been through together. And you know, if that's not enough for people, then heck, don't vote for him. A good friend of yours, one of your campaign advisors told us the other day, Bill Clinton has got a level with the American people tonight. Otherwise his candidacy is dead. You feel like you've leveled with the American people? I have. You've leveled with the American people. We're going to do the best we can to level with people, and then we're going to let them make up their minds because I think if the American people get a chance, and if they're trusted to exercise their vote right, because people talk to them about real issues, this country will be okay. That's what we're betting on, and we're just going to roll the dice and see what happens. You call it a gamble. You came here tonight to try and put it behind you. You're going to get on the plane when you walk out of this room and go back to New Hampshire. You think you've succeeded? That's up to the American people, and to some extent up to the press. This will test the character of the press. It is not only my character that has been tested.