 Yesterday, Senator John McCain died. Four days short of his 82nd birthday. He faced death the way he faced life, with valor, honor and integrity. John McCain served his country for over 60 years as a naval officer, a prisoner of war, a congressman, a six-term senator, and a presidential candidate. Over that time, he became a national treasure, occasionally ornery and profane, but a politician who placed principal over party and earned his reputation as a fighter and a maverick. In July 2017, Senator McCain learned he had glioblastoma, a deadly and unforgiving brain cancer. Our Leslie Stahl joined him for some straight talk about how he lived his life and faced his death. The story will continue in a moment. Last summer, he invited us to his ranch just outside of Sedona, Arizona, 24 acres of old growth trees, a family of hawks, and a rippling creek that is dog Burma likes to swim in. I'm wondering if when you're up here, if it's like medicine. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. It puts everything in perspective. He and his wife, Cindy, raised four children. They survived two grueling presidential campaigns, a battle against melanoma, and then this. You're taking both radiation and chemotherapy. You look terrific. How is this possible? I feel fine, and I'm eating everything that she makes me eat, which none of which is to get the number. It's been in there. One criteria to feeding people at an under-minor situation, it has to taste lousy. He has been through so much in the torture and you were put in solitary confinement. He's always been the indestructible man. He's pushed to airplanes. Prashant to airplanes and walked away. Is he still the indestructible man to you? I'm still in disbelief if this actually has happened, and then I think, you know, cancer chose the wrong guy because it's not going to happen here. How are you? Determined to stay in the arena, Senator McCain resumed his duties in Washington. You never have known it, but he started his days with chemo and radiation, and then headed off to a full day of work. Come on, guys. Including chairing hearings of the Armed Services Committee. As leaders of our Navy, you must do better. I am more energetic and more engaged as a result of this because I know that I've got to do everything I can to serve this country while I can. Now, you have the same cancer that Ted Kennedy had. Yes. Does what he experienced go through your mind, is it? Oh, yeah. I think about Ted a lot. Ted stayed at his job, kept working, kept going, even when he was in a wheelchair. And he never gave up because he loved the engagement. The Senator first learned he had a problem in Arizona last July. And doctors found a blood clot over his left eye after a routine checkup at the Mayo Clinic in Phoenix. He was driving back to the ranch when he got word. I was driving up here, and I got about two-thirds of the way up. And my doctor called and said, you got to come back and I said, hey, today is Friday. I'll just come in on Monday and she said, no, you have to come now. It's very serious. You turned the car around and went immediately into surgery? Yes. It was serious enough that they had to act immediately. And before the blood clot operation, did they mention glioblastoma to you? Yes, but as you know, doctors are interesting. They cover themselves. You know, I kept saying to them, tell it to me straight. Well, there's always this, there's always that. And I said, I can take it, just tell me. And then they were more forthcoming. Five days after the surgery, lab results confirmed he had glioblastoma, the brain cancer that took his life. What did they tell you about the prognosis? It's very serious. That the prognosis is very, very serious. Some say 3%, some say 14%, you know, it's a very poor prognosis. So I just said, I understand. Now we're going to do what we can, get the best doctors we can find and do the best we can. And at the same time, celebrate with gratitude, a life well-lived. We'll see that topic. Yes. It's a good one. Just 11 days after his surgery, he returned to Washington against Drs. Advice for the vote to repeal Obamacare. You walk out onto the Senate floor and you thought it was going to be normal, empty, most empty. And the entire Senate was there. They stand up. They give you an incredible ovation. What was went on inside? I got very choked up. And then of course, you know, all of them coming over and giving me a hug. It was deeply moving. I had never seen anything like that. So you get all this affection. And then you give them this speech. We're kind of scolding to the people who just stood up and loved you. This was a speech condemning the way the Senate has been operating. We're getting nothing done. My friends, we're getting nothing done because we keep trying to find a way to win without help from across the aisle. Two days later, as the repeal Obamacare vote was underway, McCain was subjected to urgent lobbying by Vice President Pence and the president himself over the phone. And yet at 129 AM, McCain delivered the dramatic and decisive thumbs down as a dejected majority leader Mitch McConnell bowed his head. It was a huge defeat for President Trump, who had mocked McCain's Vietnam war record. He's not a war hero. He's a war hero. Five and a half years ago. He's a war hero because he was captured. I like people that weren't captured, okay? There are some people who think that part of your know was to get back at the president, and that the thumbs down was kind of more like a middle finger to him. If I took offense at everybody who has said something about me or disparaged me or something like that, life is too short. You've got to move on. And on an issue of this importance to the nation, for me to worry about a personal relationship, then I'm not doing my job. But the fact is, his personal relationship with the president had been fraught. Last summer, he wrote an op-ed saying the president is, quote, often poorly informed and can be impulsive. Do you worry that he's not fit for the office? First of all, I believe in our system. The American people selected Donald Trump to be president of the United States. We have to respect that. Second of all, he has a very strong national security team around him, who I know has a significant influence over him. How would you describe how the president is handling his job so far? Well, I think he is handling it in a fashion that is unfortunately not predictable. The one thing your friends and your enemies want is a predictable path. That's the, he changes his statements almost on a daily basis. I don't know what he's going to do tomorrow. So, or say tomorrow. Did he ever apologize for saying you're not a hero? No. If the president wanted to have a rough pro-small with you, would you be receptive? Of course, of course. I've supported him on national security. But personal, I'm talking about personal. But personal? But personal? But personal, I'm talking about personal. But personal, I'm talking about personal. But personal, I'm talking about personal. But personal, I'm talking about personal. But personal, I'm talking about personal. But personal, I'm talking about personal. But personal, I'm talking about personal. But personal, I'm talking about personal. But personal, I'm talking about personal. But personal, I'm talking about personal. But personal, I'm talking about personal. But personal, I'm talking about personal. But personal, I'm talking about personal. I'm talking about personal, I'm talking about personal. But personal, I'm talking about personal. But personal, I'm talking about personal. But personal, I'm talking about personal. But internal, I'm talking about personal illness. So that's the way things go forward. Plus self, self, self. And social that we're doing normally, like family, children and having a family, there is social, that we are Now in love with, and Paris! Barcode Second La Boks, Barcode Second La Boks in Paris!!! Obtlifting Day I don't remember what I felt in my first dream or that. And I'm Limited, I didn't realize it for the first time." And I have a vision. admiral's. He was the first to admit he was an imperfect man. That's when they captured you. Yeah. Though he made real sacrifices for his country. When you think about your horrible time as a POW, the torture and everything, do you relive it or has it now faded so much that you can almost see it as if it happened to someone else? And that the joy of my life was the bonds that were forged between me and my fellow POWs. They were wonderful. We fought together. We loved each other. We tap on the walls to each other. I look back on that experience with a great deal of pride. Do you think that this diagnosis has changed you? No. Not at all. Same person? I think you just have to understand that you're leaving. It's that you stayed. I celebrate what a guy who stood fifth from the bottom of his class at the Naval Academy has been able to do. I am so grateful. Every night when I go to sleep, I am just filled with gratitude. Once the diagnosis, you've never once had that, I guess, that feeling in your stomach of panic. No, no. I have feelings sometimes of fear of what happens. But as soon as I get that, I say, wait a minute. You've been around a long time, old man. You've had a great life. You've had a great experience. I want, when I leave, that the ceremony is at the Naval Academy. We just have a couple of people that stand up and say, this guy, he served his country.