 60 minutes rewind. His name is I am Pay, and if you happen to be French, what he's doing in Paris these days is downright shocking. Pay is an architect, the Chinese American architect who's building an addition to that cultural icon in Paris, the Louvre Art Museum. No matter that the president of France said he was the best man in all the world for the job, the French still can't believe that a cultural barbarian in America is putting his imprint on the Paris of the picture postcards. The Paris they think only the French can understand. Paris where the towers aren't just towers, but symbols of French sophistication and style. And where the elegant old buildings are the sacred legacy of days when France was the cultural center of the universe. And as I am pay found, no building is more sacred than the world's most famous art museum, the 800 year old Louvre. The first reaction is just like my own. You can't touch the Louvre. You just cannot touch it. That's it. Sacrillage. Sacrillage. In fact, when I first presented the idea to the French by that I mean to the historical monument group. I was sure that I would be kick off town. But don't let pays gentle smile and dapper Chinese looks fool you. What he had in store for the Louvre Museum was full of American audacity. Just how audacious is it? I'll take a look at it this way. That's the most famous historic promenade in all of Paris. And before law, taking its place along with the monuments of Napoleon and the kings of France, there'll be another monument. The Pyramid of I am pay. A pyramid in Paris, a 70 foot high glass pyramid right there in front of the Louvre. If that doesn't shock you, you're just not French. I think it's time. I think it's time. In the Louvre, in the middle of this famous, of this sacred courtyard, it's an nonsense and an office. Do you think you're being an American, made at worst, the barbarian? I mean the worst of me. Obviously the barbarians, right? In this case, I think being a Chinese American architect has not heard history, you see, is important to them. And I hope that I was able to convince them that I came from a country with a long history. And I would not take this problem lightly. The old Chinese boy, we know. If the old Chinese boy helped I am pay, so did the fact that the Louvre is unbearable unless it's closed as on the day we were there. When it's open, it's an indoor track for thousands of tourists and running shoes. You know, the three minute Louvre, one minute at the Mona Lisa, one at the winged victory, sixty seconds of Venus de Milo, and that's it. They're through. That's why pay decided that a glass pyramid was the answer for the new entrance to the old museum. He said a pyramid is a simple, soothing shape, and will create a reception area full of sunlight and serenity. Just what people need before tackling a vast museum. And that pay said, back at his home in New York, is what architecture is all about. A harmony of structure and spirit like music. If you could approach the music a Bach, as an example, extremely simple, there's always a theme. And there's a certain repetition, but it not seemed like repetition. And endless variety out of a simple theme, and that is the challenge. Same with music, same with architecture. A few years ago, in what must be the greatest nightmare an architect can ever have, the windows started coming out of a building that the IMPA firm had built, the Hancock Building in Boston. Was it a nightmare? It was. It had to have been humiliating. It was quite humiliating. Humiliating when people saw look at you and architects particularly, and very, very sympathetic, you know, that's compassion, but that's not what you need at that time. Pay had lost that most Chinese treasure, his pride. Ten thousand windows were making a mockery of his legendary perfectionism. But an out-of-court settlement eventually confirmed that pay was not at fault, that the window manufacturer had made the mistake. Still, for pay, it was a long way back. Seven years. And during that period, it was a very difficult period for our firm. Why? That was the period where we built no big office buildings for big American corporations. Did you think your career was over ruined? No. I was too young to think that. Too young, and as always with pay, too convinced that all things are possible in America. He was the Mandarin son of a very Mandarin Chinese family who decided in 1935 against his father's wishes to go to school in the USA. Why? Well, I went to movies. I used to go to movies every weekend, and most of the movies were American movies. Like college movies. There were a lot of football games and people cheering and, you know, cheerleaders. Oh, for that matter, people like being cross-speed, dick-power, bedding-grabble. These are the stars of 1930s. You mean... You mean I am paid, came to America in search of bedding-grabble and cheerleaders? No, search of that lifestyle, which I like. It's a free and easy type of lifestyle. And at the same time, I assume they learned something in the process. The story will continue after this. Last summer, pay was one of the honored Americans at the Statue of Liberty Celebration. 32 years after he and his wife I lean decided to become American citizens. They had little choice. China had become communist. Pay could not go back. It was in the polar grounds that I was swarming with 10,000 others. It was a difficult moment for me. We had tears in our eyes. It was a very happy moment, obviously. But at the same time, it's also somewhat tormenting. And it's sort of like cutting the roots, you know, and that... At that time, I wasn't sure my roots in America was firm enough and deep enough to carry me on. Do you see what I mean? But pay became not only American, but the kind of architect Jacqueline Kennedy would turn to for one of those peculiarly American memorials, the John F. Kennedy Library outside Boston. It's a case study in the way an architect uses steel and mortar and glass to capture an idea. It's been a long time and it's such a happy day and a beautiful day. So many people have worked so long to make it happen. She would say, well, you know, the president has anything that I want, I want this building to reflect his person. And that's as simple as that, but it's an enormous charge. On the one hand, the schoolchildren that gave Nichols and Dines to this project wanted him to be larger than life. But at the same time, I can imagine that this be a memorial, like the Lincoln Memorial. I can't imagine that. I cannot imagine huge columns, stone and Lincoln three or four times life size sitting in cast in bronze. That's not Kennedy, you know, for better or worse. The solution isn't that huge space. We created a huge, huge glass enclosure, you know, that one. After you've seen the exhibit, the story of the life of John Kennedy, his family and so on. Very intense, very interesting, very intense. And then you emerge into this big room. There's nothing there in this room. That was my idea. I didn't want anything there. No bus, Mrs. Kennedy said no bus, no statue. She was absolutely right. No bus, no statue. But then you cannot just make an indifferent space. It couldn't have been worse. Anyone or first, he was president of the United States. So it's a big American flag. That's done. Now we still have an empty room. But the emptiness of that room with a big flag is right because every visitor, who have maybe, after they have seen the exhibit, you know, come out, they don't all have to say he was the greatest man in the world. The individual, the boy and the girl or the man and the woman, can make up his and her own mind about this man. And the emptiness turn out to be the right solution. Was that a nervous moment for you when you brought it to her to show her the model? Well, I was so convinced of it. I guess probably I didn't expect any other reaction except say yes, this is right. I have to say that she accepted it right away because it somehow seemed to fit in with her vision, her idea of what John at Kennedy was. And that's what pays colleagues say he does best. The dreaming, not the drawing. He thinks about a project for months, walks the land, absorbs the mood, and then tells his colleagues what he has in mind. And they begin to draw. Are you offended? A lot of the building you see in America, the building's being torn down, the ones being put up. I'm, I cannot be offended by that, obviously it's not because I built some of them. But I am unhappy about the fact that our society seemed to be much more inclined to build something for a short time and then tear them down. I think this disposable society of ours is not conducive to doing good architecture. And this I am unhappy about. Why is Paris so beautiful? Because the buildings were well built. They were built to last. That's the difference. And we don't. And this I regret.